CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to this list of high-quality Move content — just send a pull request!

As the list grows over time, we may do more curation by splitting some sections from the list into separate docs and highlight a smaller set of prominent projects on the main list.

However, we will always bias toward inclusion of anything a Move community member might find interesting or useful.

## Pull Request Requirements and Guidelines
Ensure your addition adheres to the following guidelines:

- **Use the following format**: `[project](link) - Description.`
- Link should point to the GitHub repo, if applicable.
- Descriptions should
  - be short and simple, but descriptive;
  - not be marketing taglines;
  - not be title-case;
  - begin with a capital;
  - end with a full stop/period;
  - not have trailing whitespaces.
- Additions should be added to the bottom of the relevant category.
- New categories or improvements to the existing categorization are welcome, but should be done in a separate pull request. **Remember to update the [`Contents`](README.md#contents) accordingly!**
- Check your spelling and grammar.

Thank you for your suggestion!

## Updating Your Pull Request

A lot of times, making a PR adhere to the standards above can be difficult. If the maintainers notice anything that we'd like changed, we'll ask you to edit your PR before we merge it. If you're not sure how to do that, [here is a guide](https://github.com/RichardLitt/knowledge/blob/master/github/amending-a-commit-guide.md) on the different ways you can update your PR so that we can merge it.

Commit message:

Added PR template & amended CONTRIBUTING.md
Added a PR template outlining the most important requirements for an
addition. Also added a requirement for the commit message format.

Also replaced "guidelines" with "requirements" since the list has
been recently gaining traction.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to this list of high-quality Move content — just send a pull request!

As the list grows over time, we may do more curation by splitting some sections from the list into separate docs and highlight a smaller set of prominent projects on the main list.

However, we will always bias toward inclusion of anything a Move community member might find interesting or useful.

## Pull Request Requirements
Ensure your addition adheres to the following requirements:

- **Use the following format**: `[project_name](link) - Description.`
- Link should point to the GitHub repo, if applicable.
- Descriptions should
  - be short and simple, but descriptive;
  - not be marketing taglines;
  - not be title-case;
  - begin with a capital;
  - end with a full stop/period;
  - not have trailing whitespaces.
- Additions should be added to the bottom of the relevant category.
- New categories or improvements to the existing categorization are welcome, but should be done in a separate pull request. **Remember to update the [`Contents`](README.md#contents) accordingly!**
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- Commit message should follow the format `Add project_name` (if using the GitHub Web UI, remember to change the default commit message).

Thank you for your addition!

## Updating Your Pull Request

A lot of times, making a PR adhere to the standards above can be difficult. If the maintainers notice anything that we'd like changed, we'll ask you to edit your PR before we merge it. If you're not sure how to do that, [here is a guide](https://github.com/RichardLitt/knowledge/blob/master/github/amending-a-commit-guide.md) on the different ways you can update your PR so that we can merge it.
